docs: hint switch to pg-native for performance improvement with pg-wrapped libraries (#1989)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/shared-content/pg-hint.md

---
updatedOn: '2024-07-31T07:55:54.426Z'
---

<Admonition type="tip">

> TypeORM leverages [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com) Pool instance underneath to connect to your Postgres. Configuring the `NODE_PG_FORCE_NATIVE` environment variable to `true` [switches the pg driver to pg-native one](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg/lib/index.js#L31-L34), which in some cases, seem to bring noticeable faster response times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TypeORM leverages a [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com) Pool instance to connect to your Postgres database. Setting the `NODE_PG_FORCE_NATIVE` environment variable to `true` [switches the `pg` driver to `pg-native`](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg/lib/index.js#L31-L34), which, according to some users, produces noticeably faster response times.
```

> TypeORM leverages a [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com) Pool instance to connect to your Postgres database. Installing [pg-native](https://npmjs.com/package/pg-native), and setting the `NODE_PG_FORCE_NATIVE` environment variable to `true` [switches the `pg` driver to `pg-native`](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg/lib/index.js#L31-L34), which, according to some users, produces noticeably faster response times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TypeORM leverages a [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com) Pool instance to connect to your Postgres database. Installing [pg-native](https://npmjs.com/package/pg-native) and setting the `NODE_PG_FORCE_NATIVE` environment variable to `true` [switches the `pg` driver to `pg-native`](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres/blob/master/packages/pg/lib/index.js#L31-L34), which, according to some users, produces noticeably faster response times.
```
